translations/pt-BR/content/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/configuring-openid-connect-in-azure.md, before:

---
title: Configurando o OpenID Connect no Azure
shortTitle: Configurando o OpenID Connect no Azure
intro: Use OpenID Connect dentro dos seus fluxos de trabalho para efetuar a autenticação com o Azure.
miniTocMaxHeadingLevel: 3
versions:
  fpt: '*'
  ghae: issue-4856
  ghec: '*'
type: tutorial
topics:
  - Security
---

{% data reusables.actions.enterprise-beta %}
{% data reusables.actions.enterprise-github-hosted-runners %}

## Visão Geral

O OpenID Connect (OIDC) permite aos seus fluxos de trabalho de {% data variables.product.prodname_actions %} acessar recursos no Azure, sem precisar armazenar as credenciais do Azure como segredos de {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} de longa duração.

Este guia fornece uma visão geral de como configurar o Azure para confiar no OIDC de {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} como uma identidade federada, e inclui um exemplo de fluxo de trabalho para o [`azure/login`](https://github.com/Azure/login) ação que usa tokens para efetuar a autenticação ao Azure e acessar recursos.

## Pré-requisitos

{% data reusables.actions.oidc-link-to-intro %}

{% data reusables.actions.oidc-security-notice %}

## Adicionando as credenciais federadas ao Azure

Provedor OIDC de {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} funciona com a federação de identidade do Azure. Para uma visão geral, consulte a documentação da Microsoft em "[Federação de identidade da carga](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/workload-identity-federation)".

Para configurar o provedor de identidade OIDC no Azure, você deverá definir a configuração a seguir. Para obter instruções sobre como fazer essas alterações, consulte [a documentação do Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/github/connect-from-azure).

1. Cria um aplicativo Azure Active Directory e um diretor de serviço.
2. Adicione ascredenciais federadas ao aplicativo Azure Active Directory.
3. Crie segredos de {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} para armazenar a configuração do Azure.

Orientação adicional para a configuração do provedor de identidade:

- Para aumentar a segurança, verifique se você revisou ["Configurando a confiança do OIDC com a nuvem"](/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/about-security-hardening-with-openid-connect#configuring-the-oidc-trust-with-the-cloud). Por exemplo, consulte ["Configurar o assunto no seu provedor de nuvem"](/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/about-security-hardening-with-openid-connect#configuring-the-subject-in-your-cloud-provider).
- Para a configuração `audiência`, `api://AzureADTokenExchange` é o valor recomendado, mas você também pode especificar outros valores aqui.

## Atualizar o seu fluxo de trabalho de {% data variables.product.prodname_actions %}

Para atualizar seus fluxos de trabalho para o OIDC, você deverá fazer duas alterações no seu YAML:
1. Adicionar configurações de permissões para o token.
2. Use a ação [`azure/login`](https://github.com/Azure/login) para trocar o token OIDC (JWT) para um token de acesso da nuvem.

### Adicionando configurações de permissões

O fluxo de trabalho exigirá uma configuração `permissões` com um valor de [`id-token`](/actions/security-guides/automatic-token-authentication#permissions-for-the-github_token) definido. If you only need to fetch an OIDC token for a single job, then this permission can be set within that job. Por exemplo:

```yaml{:copy}
permissions:
  id-token: write
```

Você pode precisar especificar permissões adicionais aqui, dependendo das necessidades do seu fluxo de trabalho.

### Solicitando o token de acesso

A ação [`azure/login`](https://github.com/Azure/login) recebe um JWT do provedor OIDC {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} e, em seguida, solicita um token de acesso do Azure. Para obter mais informações, consulte a documentação [`azure/login`](https://github.com/Azure/login).

O exemplo a seguir troca um token de ID do OIDC com o Azure para receber um token de acesso, que pode, em seguida, ser usado para acessar os recursos da nuvem.

{% raw %}
```yaml{:copy}
name: Run Azure Login with OIDC
on: [push]

permissions:
      id-token: write
      contents: read
jobs: 
  build-and-deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: 'Az CLI login'
        uses: azure/login@v1
        with:
          client-id: ${{ secrets.AZURE_CLIENT_ID }}
          tenant-id: ${{ secrets.AZURE_TENANT_ID }}
          subscription-id: ${{ secrets.AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID }}

      - name: 'Run az commands'
        run: |
          az account show
          az group list
```
 {% endraw %}

Commit message:

Initialize dependabot/github_actions/dawidd6/action-download-artifact-2.16.0

translations/pt-BR/content/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/configuring-openid-connect-in-azure.md, after:

---
title: Configuring OpenID Connect in Azure
shortTitle: Configuring OpenID Connect in Azure
intro: 'Use OpenID Connect within your workflows to authenticate with Azure.'
miniTocMaxHeadingLevel: 3
versions:
  fpt: '*'
  ghae: 'issue-4856'
  ghec: '*'
type: tutorial
topics:
  - Security
---

{% data reusables.actions.enterprise-beta %}
{% data reusables.actions.enterprise-github-hosted-runners %}

## Overview

OpenID Connect (OIDC) allows your {% data variables.product.prodname_actions %} workflows to access resources in Azure, without needing to store the Azure credentials as long-lived {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} secrets. 

This guide gives an overview of how to configure Azure to trust {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %}'s OIDC as a federated identity, and includes a workflow example for the [`azure/login`](https://github.com/Azure/login) action that uses tokens to authenticate to Azure and access resources.

## Prerequisites

{% data reusables.actions.oidc-link-to-intro %}

{% data reusables.actions.oidc-security-notice %}

## Adding the Federated Credentials to Azure

{% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %}'s OIDC provider works with Azure's workload identity federation. For an overview, see Microsoft's documentation at "[Workload identity federation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/workload-identity-federation)."

To configure the OIDC identity provider in Azure, you will need to perform the following configuration. For instructions on making these changes, refer to [the Azure documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/github/connect-from-azure).

1. Create an Azure Active Directory application and a service principal.
2. Add federated credentials for the Azure Active Directory application.
3. Create {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} secrets for storing Azure configuration.

Additional guidance for configuring the identity provider:

- For security hardening, make sure you've reviewed ["Configuring the OIDC trust with the cloud"](/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/about-security-hardening-with-openid-connect#configuring-the-oidc-trust-with-the-cloud). For an example, see ["Configuring the subject in your cloud provider"](/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/about-security-hardening-with-openid-connect#configuring-the-subject-in-your-cloud-provider).
- For the `audience` setting,  `api://AzureADTokenExchange` is the recommended value, but you can also specify other values here.

## Updating your {% data variables.product.prodname_actions %} workflow

To update your workflows for OIDC, you will need to make two changes to your YAML:
1. Add permissions settings for the token.
2. Use the [`azure/login`](https://github.com/Azure/login) action to exchange the OIDC token (JWT) for a cloud access token.

### Adding permissions settings

The workflow will require a `permissions` setting with a defined [`id-token`](/actions/security-guides/automatic-token-authentication#permissions-for-the-github_token) value. If you only need to fetch an OIDC token for a single job, then this permission can be set within that job. For example:

```yaml{:copy}
permissions:
  id-token: write
```

You may need to specify additional permissions here, depending on your workflow's requirements. 

### Requesting the access token

The [`azure/login`](https://github.com/Azure/login) action receives a JWT from the {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} OIDC provider, and then requests an access token from Azure. For more information, see the [`azure/login`](https://github.com/Azure/login) documentation.

The following example exchanges an OIDC ID token with Azure to receive an access token, which can then be used to access cloud resources.

{% raw %}
```yaml{:copy}
name: Run Azure Login with OIDC
on: [push]

permissions:
      id-token: write
      contents: read
jobs: 
  build-and-deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: 'Az CLI login'
        uses: azure/login@v1
        with:
          client-id: ${{ secrets.AZURE_CLIENT_ID }}
          tenant-id: ${{ secrets.AZURE_TENANT_ID }}
          subscription-id: ${{ secrets.AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID }}
  
      - name: 'Run az commands'
        run: |
          az account show
          az group list
```
 {% endraw %}
